The terminal room was large and filled with the voices of about 60 people. There were screens hung overhead displaying departure times and itineraries. There was a baby somewhere in the room, not far enough away to be inaudible but not close enough to see. 

Along one wall, there was a row of doors, each marked with a different number. People filtered through these doors, in ones and twos and leaving by the dozen.

It was a large terminal and a large space station that required it. At this time, about 8,500 people lived on the station which was locked in a low orbit around a giant gas planet.

On a normal day, more than 800 of them would pass through this room. On the day in question, it was busier than that. People stopped at the ticket desk, then they hurried to board one of the many elevators and trams that connected the far-flung parts of the space station. 

But that day was different for another reason. One of the travelers, instead of waving a phone to confirm travel plans, had pulled from his pocket a golden token. 

The man looked old. He was thin, with his hair was cropped pretty close and more than a little grayed.

The token was about as long as a finger and twice as wide. It was flat, like a small box of matches. The clerk looked at the man with eyes wide eyes and took the token. He dropped it into a slot on the computer. 

The screen flashed information at him, which he took the time to read. “Well, Mr. Benjamin  Davidson, your ticket is in perfect order.”

“It certainly is, but call me Ben.”

“Of course,” said the clerk, "Step right this way, sir." 

The clerk turned and came around the counter. He reached out his hand and the man gave him the gold chip. "Thank you," he said.

The two walked through the crowd of travelers and crossed over to an elevator. The clerk pressed the call button. He said, "Alright, this will take you all the way. Have a good trip."

Ben went in and sat on the bench that ran entire back wall of the elevator. The doors closed and a moment later, it began to move. 

For the first few minutes, the glass walls showed nothing but the elevator shaft. Then, the shaft ended, and the world seemed to open up. The station, expansive and blinding white, looked like a meadow. As the elevator climbed, it left the station behind. Soon, the edges became visible, then, at once, it stopped looking like the ground and began to look like a single unit, one big animal. Perhaps a fish or a whale. Tiny minnows, ships, came and went through the open mouth of the star dock. 

Beyond the station, there was nothing but a few mined-out shells of asteroids and then, rotating slowly into view, was the giant gas planet that the station orbited. 

But Ben looked at the floor. After several minutes, the elevator car began to slow, then it stopped. When the bell chimed and the door started to open, he looked up with sharp eyes. The door opened into a small room that had two rows of yellow chairs facing each other. 

The ceiling was sloped on the edges and the walls were white. There was a plain vase with a few flowers and a stack of disposable tablets flashing articles about decorating an apartment.

Opposite the elevator door, there was a man wearing a uniform and standing behind a desk. He was telling the punchline of a joke to a young woman who was seated. She was laughing and very pretty. 

They turned to look at the old man. The uniformed man asked, “Benjamin Davidson?”

He nodded, “Call me Ben.”

“How'd you like that ride?”

Ben said, “What's it so tall for?”

“The connection is better out here,” said the man at the desk, “and the early teleports had a tendency to blow up. This is a new unit, on an old platform.” 

Ben still stood in the door of the elevator, then he looked back at the bench again.

The man behind the desk said, "Did you forget something?"

Ben came into the room and chose a seat. He said, "I've been an engineer for 47 years and this is the first place I've gone without my tablet."

The man at the desk nodded. "Everybody feels like that, but it's already there waiting for you. All your files will be right where you left them."

The engineer said, "My tablet is already there, huh. All my old files and memories." He turned to the woman, "I thought I left mine on the dining room table."

She was still smiling, "Maybe little robots stole it away and sent it ahead for you faster than light."

"Or maybe they just downloaded my files from the cloud onto a brand new tablet."

"How could you even tell?"

But, before the engineer could answer, the man behind the counter shuffled his papers and stood up. "Ma'am, if you'll come with me, we're ready.”

She stood up and walked to the desk. The teleport operator pressed a spot on the back wall and it started to open. He walked through the door. She followed and, soon, the smooth wall hid all trace that they'd ever been there. 

The man kept his chair. After two minutes, the wall lit up with the recorded image of a woman, a newscaster. It said,  “Hello, do you want to watch the news?”

The man said nothing. After another minute, the recording said, “Hello, do you want to watch the news?” Ben still said nothing. A moment passed, then the screen changed to show a man walking in the snow. The same excited woman's voice began reading a story about an eleven year old boy who had invented a pair of boots that turned the motion of walking into heat energy. According to the program, they were waterproof, affordable and easy to wear. 

The newscaster babbled on excitedly but Ben sat quiet. He did not appear to pay attention but until the broadcast cut to a story about a power outage on the space station.

“Station Orion is entering her third day of no power and the second day of rioting. The clashes between protestors and company representatives have claimed eight lives so far. The reason for the blackout is still unknown, but experts are working non-stop.” The man gazed at the screen.

“We go now to reporter Andrae Dulkevich.” The shot cut to the kitchen of an apartment. Except for the lights of the camera and a battery lantern, it was dark. “Today we're at the home of the Philips family.  How are you holding up?”

The camera moved down to show a woman and several children sitting on the floor with a dog. “Well, at first we were really worried about food. Like everybody else!”

“How about now?”

The dog came up and licked the woman's face, “The company is taking such good care of us! Three times a day, they come around with meals for us.”

“Have any of you been hurt?” 

The woman said, “Yeah, David was coming out of work yesterday and somebody hit him with a bottle.”

The reporter thanked the woman and said, “Next, we go to our experts for analysis about what might happen if the power isn't restored.”

The camera cut to an clip of a riot. “Images taken after the transportation system battery backups went down, the situation isn't pretty. Today, things seem to be much quieter, fewer people on the streets now that industry on Station Orion has critically....”

The video froze. The engineer looked up to see the teleport operator. He was coming back through the door and he had his hand held up in the pause gesture. He clapped and the screen returned to the original flat white. 

"Say, did you ever hear why the sun dropped out of school?”

The engineer thought for a second, “Did he realize he already had a million degrees?”

“Yeah! How'd you guess?”



“I've heard a few jokes over the years, but I don't mind hearing them again.”

 “Well, I'm ready for you now. Come right this way. Did you watch the video on the process?”

Ben nodded. 

They moved through the door on the back wall. As they passed, the engineer turned his head and carefully observed the walls behind it. “Do these cracks hide blast doors?”

The man in the uniform turned his head without breaking his stride, “Yup! But we only use them for receiving. It's perfectly safe to send somebody on a teleport, but sometimes they don't come in clearly. So, we developed the best safety measures ever. Out of the last few million trips, we haven't lost even one.” 

The engineer said, “Not even one? There has never been anything that functions that well. What kinda machine are you working with?”

The teleport operator laughed, “It's not one machine, it's a network. Different parts work in parallel and there are backups.”

By now, they'd come into a small room with dark gray walls. The ceiling was bright white and shone down on a light green recliner. 

The operator pointed to the seat with an open hand and the man sat on the edge. Then, he turned and sat properly, with his legs up and his head back. The operator wrapped a black chord around Ben's right arm and crushed the end. It inflated, causing his veins to swell a little under his wrinkled skin. 

He swabbed yellow fluid in a palm-sized patch of over his inside inner elbow. “How do you feel?”

“Old,” Ben said.

The operator laughed and produced a large needle attached to a thin hose and bag of fluid. “Ok, you know what this feels like.......”

Ben looked away. The operator layed the needle flat against his arm and simply, calmly slid it into the vein. A flash of red showed in the hose behind the needle, but the operator quickly pulled off the black tourniquet and opens a valve on the bag.

Clear fluid pushed the red back into his arm. The operator looked at the vial where the clear fluid dripped rapidly. He nodded and looked Ben in the eye. “Alright, Ben, get ready to wake up on the Station Orion.”

And then Ben couldn't think of any good reason to keep his eyes open.

