It was a still night and it was hot. There was no sound and high above, small lights twinkled in the black sky. 

One patch of sky had started to show light, blue and gray and weak, as if the sky had been dipped in the river and had gotten soft. 

The river herself ran along her course not far away. It was too dark to see, but the sound of water pouring over stones was audible. 

The river ran on for a time and the sky continued to grey up. The soft spot in the sky was now scraped with yellow and the black silhouettes of landmarks began to show. 

But in an instant, all of this changed. 

The light that was gathering to show where the sun would rise was washed out by new, bright red light, dancing like a fire but too pure and too red.

It was coming from a pillar which had been invisible in the darkness. It was much taller than a man but small enough for a child to wrap their arms around. 

It grew brighter, until the flickering red illuminated the grass in a wide circle. Then, it was gone. The light went out, just as suddenly as it had come on.

The lights in the sky, which had been so dim when compared with the unnatural flames, slowly became visible again. The light from the sun had crawled up the sky a little.

Then, the pillar lit again, and the sun, moon and stars were all forgotten. This time, the pillar emitted pure white light and so much of it. The strong light pushed the darkness way back, clearly showing the grass. Further away, there were shrubs and, down the hill, there was a stand of bamboo at the edge of a broad stream. Across the fields, there were small scrubby trees scattered, lit up clearly against the night behind them. 

And there were eyes. Birds stood on the ground, holding their heads cocked at about the height of a man's waist. They were white and perfectly fixated on the pillar. 

But the birds were not the only creatures who paid attention. There was a man lying not far away with his feet towards the pillar. He had rolled onto his side and curled so that he faced the light. His mouth was open and he did not blink.

Except the shallow rise and fall of his chest, the man wasn't moving. The pillar continued to pour white hot light into the darkness. The sky, although forgotten, was only thing that showed time passing. If anything had been looking, they'd have seen a sunrise tinged with orange, gold, blue and violet. The first corner of the sun came up in all imaginable glory, shining warm white orange light over the land. 

Before the sun was halfway over the horizon, there was a sound. It wasn't loud yet, but it carried far across the acres of tall grass. A song sung by one human voice floated across the river. 

On the ground, the wide eyes of the man still stared at the pillar. He did not see the group of people cross at the ford of the river. There were more than more than four of them, but not many more. They were led by a woman. She was short with brown hair, but it was her clear voice that carried over the fields.

Two of the party were men. They carried thin spears and the women had bundles of green grass. As they walked, they kept their heads down, as if they purposefully avoided looking at the pillar, which still glowed bright white. 

The sun was more than half up now. The sky was light blue, all of it except the area around the sun. There, it was still streaked with yellow and gold. 

As they approached, the eyes of the man stayed fixed on the pillar. So, too, did the eyes of the birds. The group moved gently, not stopping until they came to the place where the man lay. The singer was still first among them.

She lay on the ground behind the man. Slowly, she reached with her hand and covered his eyes. He took a gasping breath and squirmed, trying to push her away. Gently but firmly, she pulled him close, covering his eyes completely. In a short moment, he stopped struggling and lay completely still in her arms. Throughout all of this, her song continued.

Still singing, still covering his eyes, she twisted and sat up. The other women in the group moved towards them; the one nearest reached out and lifted his legs. Together, they picked him up. Both singing now, they started to walk back in the direction they came. The group also moved in this direction, forming a loose ring around them. One more of the women took up the song and put her arm under the man. 

They walked back the same way they had come. It was during this time that the sun burst fully over the horizon. Except for the hills and some bamboo growing around the edge of the river, grassy fields stretched for as far as the eye could see in all directions. 

The new light of the sun bathed everything in rich golden light and the world looked green and brown and all the right colors. The white birds walked carelessly out of the path of the travelers. 

When they reached the river, all but one of the women were now helping to carry the man. He still did not move. When they reached the water's edge, the last woman joined in and the first woman supported just his head. All of them continued to sing the song, although they were breathing hard. Their quick breaths played games with their rhythm. It sounded like many songs sung all at once.

As they moved, the women went deeper into the water -- it came first to their legs. They did not stop, but when the water reached their hips, the first singer pinched the man's nose. Soon, the water completely covered him and reached to the women's shoulders. 

When the man came up, the woman uncovered his nose and eyes. The song had changed. The men were singing now and all of the people were smiling and helping to carry the man. They moved up the far bank. 

They traveled on a well worn road with confident steps. The singing reached a crescendo and the eyes of the man 
 glanced up at the people who held him. His breaths came quicker and his eyes became wet. The man was crying. 

The red dirt road carried them through more grass and they passed little branching paths. They passed spots where plants grew in rows and then they came to a building. A man was standing beside it. The house was short; his head was higher than the corner. Although one side was more narrow than the other, the long side went further than a thrown stone would fly. 

In front of the house and off to the side, there was a mound of powdered dirt. This was where they set him down.

The people picked up handfuls of the red powder and rubbed it onto him. They punctuated the song with happy laughter now. The people were wet from the river and the dirt stuck everywhere. The peoples hands were covered; their faces were covered. Their clothes were covered. But the most dirt stuck onto the man. His hair, his skin, his ears and teeth. The people rubbed him in dirt until he was completely painted with mud made from the river water and the rich red dirt.

Then, all in a moment, the song and strange dance were over. The people quieted down and stood up. In an instant, they had filed through the door into the long house. When they had all gone, the man was left alone, still lying in the dirt. It was oppressively hot and so quiet. 

He looked around himself, carefully rubbing dirt from his eyes. Then, he slowly stood up and looked towards the door.